.\"MIT License
.\"
.\"Copyright (c) 2018 Tom Canich
.\"
.\"Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
.\"of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
.\"in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
.\"to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
.\"copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
.\"furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\"The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
.\"copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\"THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\"IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\"FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\"AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\"LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
.\"OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\"SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd October 18, 2018
.Dt compare 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm eq, gt, lt, ge, le,
.Sh LIBRARY
libcompare, -lcompare
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd "use compare"
.Ft logical
.Fn eq "real|real64|complex r1|z1" "real|real64|complex r2|z2" "[real t]"
.Ft logical
.Fn gt "real|complex r1|z1" "real|complex r2|z2" "[real t]"
.Ft logical
.Fn lt "real|complex r1|z1" "real|complex r2|z2" "[real t]"
.Ft logical
.Fn ge "real|complex r1|z1" "real|complex r2|z2" "[real t]"
.Ft logical
.Fn le "real|complex r1|z1" "real|complex r2|z2" "[real t]"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The compare
family of functions compares real or complex numbers within a tolerance,
.Fa t
as described below.
The
.Fn eq
function checks for equality between the two arguments and returns .true. if
the arguments are equal and .false. if they are not.  These functions aid in the
comparison of floating point numbers.
.Bl -bullet
Arguments 
.Fa r1, r2
or
.Fa z1, z2
must be of same type.  If array arguments are supplied to
.Fn eq
the arguments must match in type and size.
.El
.Bl -bullet
The optional argument
.Fa t
may be used to tune the tolerance used in the comparison.  By default, this tolerance is 
1e-8 (0.00000001).
.El
.Bl -bullet
.Fn eq
accepts arguments of types
.Ft real
,
.Ft real64
,
or 
.Ft complex
.  All other functions accept arguments of types
.Ft real
or
.Ft complex
.
.El
.Sh RETURN VALUE
All function return .true. when the condition is true and .false. when the condition is false.
.Sh EXAMPLES
A simple example checking equality of two real numbers and printing the result to standard out:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
program test_compare
  use compare, only: eq
  implicit none

  write(*,*) eq(1.0,1.0)
  write(*,*) eq(2.0,1.0)
end program test_compare
.Ed
.Pp
Comparing real64 values with a non-default tolerance:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
program test_compare
  use compare, only: eq
  use iso_fortran_env, only: real64
  implicit none

  write(*,*) eq(1.0,1.0001,1e-2)
  write(*,*) eq(1.0_real64,1.0001_real64,1e-3)
end program test_compare
.Ed
.Pp
.Sh BUGS
.Sh SEE ALSO
